# Security for the Whistleblower

SCOPE-1: This page will go on initiative website and on the landing page of
submission

When submitting sensitive information you must consider the risks related in
taking that action in revealing the truth as you may be subject to retaliation
by the parties that doesn’t like what you have to say.

When considering blowing the whistle you must keep in mind the possible risks
associated with doing so. People not liking you speaking the truth, may
retaliate against you.

For this reason you must take all the possible actions to preserve your
anonymity.

You need to be aware of the social and technical risks and take the right
countermeasures to protect yourself. The most applicable protection strategies
depend on the scenario, especially those related to social risks.


## Social Risks


Before submitting any information you should consider what will happen “after” the information has been sent and news about the related facts reaches public media attention.


Ask yourself these questions to understand your real risk context:

1. Are you the only person or one of the few people that have access to the
information you are available to submit?

2. After the information reaches public attention, do know if someone will ask
you something about it?

3. Do you feel capable of managing the “stress” of an internal or external
investigation (someone asking you something) about the submission?


Only after you fully understand and have properly reflected on the previous
points, you should consider submitting to a GlobaLeaks site.


## Technological Risks

You must be aware of the fact that while using a computer and the internet to
exchange information, most of the actions you do leave traces (computer logs)
that could lead an investigator to identifying where you are and who you are.

For this reason you must take very specific precautions and risk mitigation
strategies to avoid leaving technological traces about your actions.

You may leave computer’s traces while doing the following actions:

1. Researching on the information to be submitted

2. Acquiring the information to be submitted

3. Reading this web page

4. Submitting the information to us

5. Exchanging data with the receivers of your submission

All these actions may leave traces completely waiving your security, but with
few technological protection steps you can minimize the risks.

## Social Protection

From a social protection perspective you should take at least the following set
of actions:

1. Before you make a submission, don’t tell your intention to anyone

2. After you make a submission, don’t tell what you have done to anyone

3. After the news about the submission gets out to public media, be really
careful in expressing your opinion about it with anyone

4. Be sure that there’s no surveillance systems (cameras or other) in the place
where you acquire and submit the information

5. Don’t look around on search engines or news media website for the
information you submitted (this would reveal that you knew about it earlier)


are just a set of social protection actions that you must consider.


## Technological Protection

Technological protection actions could be the most tricky to be understood due
to the underlying technical complexity of today’s computing and network
systems.

To achieve a 100% guarantee of security from technical perspective you need to
be computer-proficient enough to fully understand all the risks.

However by strictly following the procedures and tips reported below you should
be safe enough:

1. Submit information using Anonymous Web Browsing software Tor Browser Bundle
(it’s easy, use it!)

2. Don’t submit information from the personal computer provided to you by your
employer (consider using a spare one)

3. Keep safe the Submission’s receipt and destroy this information after you
don’t need it anymore

4. Don’t keep a copy of the information you submitted

5. While acquiring the information to be submitted, be sure that there’s no
traces being left on the IT systems leading back to your identity (eg: collect
files within your USB key, and when completed the submission, delete the files
and fill the storage with something yours: movies, photos, mp3)

6. Be ware of the fact that “meta data information” may be present in some of
the data you are submitting.

7. Consider cleaning up the Metadata by using tools such as MAT bundled with
the TAILS linux live CD.

8. Consider converting all the data that you are sending us to standard PDF
format

By applying the procedures describe above you should be safe enough.

Safe enough doesn’t means 100% safe.

To overall improve your digital security you should undergo reading the
Security in a Box project, explaining most of the risks and related
countermeasures.


