# TOC

* Security for the Whistleblower

* Social Risks

* Technological Risks

* Social Protection

* Technological Protection

* Confidential or Anonymous Submission?

* Security of the Submission System

# Security for the Whistleblower

SCOPE-1: This page will go on initiative website and on the landing page of
submission

When submitting sensitive information you must consider the risks related in
taking that action in revealing the truth as you may be subject to retaliation
by the parties that doesn’t like what you have to say.

When considering blowing the whistle you must keep in mind the possible risks
associated with doing so. People not liking you speaking the truth, may
retaliate against you.

For this reason you must take all the possible actions to preserve your
anonymity.

You need to be aware of the social and technical risks and take the right
countermeasures to protect yourself. The most applicable protection strategies
depend on the scenario, especially those related to social risks.


## Social Risks


Before submitting any information you should consider what will happen “after” the information has been sent and news about the related facts reaches public media attention.


Ask yourself these questions to understand your real risk context:

1. Are you the only person or one of the few people that have access to the
information you are available to submit?

2. After the information reaches public attention, do know if someone will ask
you something about it?

3. Do you feel capable of managing the “stress” of an internal or external
investigation (someone asking you something) about the submission?


Only after you fully understand and have properly reflected on the previous
points, you should consider submitting to a GlobaLeaks site.


## Technological Risks

You must be aware of the fact that while using a computer and the internet to
exchange information, most of the actions you do leave traces (computer logs)
that could lead an investigator to identifying where you are and who you are.

For this reason you must take very specific precautions and risk mitigation
strategies to avoid leaving technological traces about your actions.

You may leave computer’s traces while doing the following actions:

1. Researching on the information to be submitted

2. Acquiring the information to be submitted

3. Reading this web page

4. Submitting the information to us

5. Exchanging data with the receivers of your submission

All these actions may leave traces completely waiving your security, but with
few technological protection steps you can minimize the risks.

## Social Protection

From a social protection perspective you should take at least the following set
of actions:

1. Before you make a submission, don’t tell your intention to anyone

2. After you make a submission, don’t tell what you have done to anyone

3. After the news about the submission gets out to public media, be really
careful in expressing your opinion about it with anyone

4. Be sure that there’s no surveillance systems (cameras or other) in the place
where you acquire and submit the information

5. Don’t look around on search engines or news media website for the
information you submitted (this would reveal that you knew about it earlier)


are just a set of social protection actions that you must consider.


## Technological Protection

Technological protection actions could be the most tricky to be understood due
to the underlying technical complexity of today’s computing and network
systems.

To achieve a 100% guarantee of security from technical perspective you need to
be computer-proficient enough to fully understand all the risks.

However by strictly following the procedures and tips reported below you should
be safe enough:

1. Submit information using Anonymous Web Browsing software Tor Browser Bundle
(it’s easy, use it!)

2. Don’t submit information from the personal computer provided to you by your
employer (consider using a spare one)

3. Keep safe the Submission’s receipt and destroy this information after you
don’t need it anymore

4. Don’t keep a copy of the information you submitted

5. While acquiring the information to be submitted, be sure that there’s no
traces being left on the IT systems leading back to your identity (eg: collect
files within your USB key, and when completed the submission, delete the files
and fill the storage with something yours: movies, photos, mp3)

6. Be ware of the fact that “meta data information” may be present in some of
the data you are submitting.

7. Consider cleaning up the Metadata by using tools such as MAT bundled with
the TAILS linux live CD.

8. Consider converting all the data that you are sending us to standard PDF
format

By applying the procedures describe above you should be safe enough.

Safe enough doesn’t means 100% safe.

To overall improve your digital security you should undergo reading the
Security in a Box project, explaining most of the risks and related
countermeasures.

# Security of the Submission System

SCOPE: This page will goes on initiative website, and need to explain why
globaleaks is secure without expect a previous security knowledge in the
reader.


This Whistleblowing Submission platform is implemented using the GlobaLeaks
Software and anonymity for the whistleblower is provided thanks to Tor
software. 

Tor is the state of the art when it comes to digitally protecting anonymity and
has received a lot of attention from both the academic research community and
experts in the field of IT security.

GlobaLeaks is the first opensource, secure and anonymous whistleblowing
platform designed by the Hermes Center for Transparency and Digital Human
Rights.

Tor is already integrated in GlobaLeaks, that way the Site Owner is not able to
have any kind of traces or information about the Whistleblower’s identity or
location.

You can never never be sure if somebody will do some further investigation
about your submission, for this reason we recommend to ensure the maximum level
of security possible.

The easiest way to use Tor is by downloading the Tor Browser Bundle: an
anonymous internet browser.


If you can’t or don’t want need to use Tor Browser Bundle to do submission
anonymously, you can do it as a “Confidential Submission” thanks to the use of
Tor2Web, an Internet-to-Tor proxy service.  Tor2web allows the user to access
the site even without having Tor installed on their system.  If the
whistleblower is worried about somebody reading their network traffic they
should not submit over tor2web.  We discourage to perform submissions over
tor2web and it should only be done when the whistleblower is fully aware of the
risks.

Complete security can never be guaranteed, however we have designed this
technology with in mind scenarios where the life of the whistleblower is at
stake.

Security experts have performed multiple audits on our software to identify and
fix possible vulnerabilities.  This is the only way to ensure that the
application is truly secure. We do not only tell you to trust us to have made
the right decisions, but have received various independent analysis from third
parties. 

Moreover the source code of GlobaLeaks is open, therefore anybody can inspect
it and make sure that it does what we say it does.

For more in depth analysis of the security of GlobaLeaks see: GlobaLeaks Application Security 
Design and Details.


## Confidential or Anonymous Submission?

SCOPE-2: This page will get integrated on-clicking of “Blow The Whistle” when in Tor2web mode asking the whistleblower for acceptance with specific inquiry, forcing him to read the text
THIS IS ALREADY COMMITTED INTO THE SOFTWARE CODE AND SUBJECT TO TRANSLATIONS


### VERSION-A:

When making a submission you should be aware that it can be done with a
different degree of protection of your identity.  You are about to upload your
tip over a https/ssl protected connection.  This means that your are not
anonymous, but your content is encrypted.  There have been instances where
https/ssl encryption has been broken: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DigiNotar If
you are about to give a tip concerning strong adversaries such as nation
states, secret services or the military, or if you want to be anonymous, you
should use Tor to upload your tip.


### VERSION-B:

Is possible to make confidential or anonymous submission.

With Confidential Submission you are exposing yourself to the risks that
someone else* will know that you have submitted something, without knowing what
you have submitted. 

Instead with Anonymous Submission you are fully protected, is not even possible
for a third party to know that you have submitted something.

We strongly advise you to go with Anonymous Submission.


To make Anonymous Submission, instead of your usual Web Browser (Internet
Explorer, Chrome, Firefox, Opera, Etc) you should use the Tor Browser Bundle,
that’s a special software designed to enable Anonymous Web Browsing. 

* “someone else” is someone who is actively against the whistleblowers activity
  or the initiative, using technological or physical ways. It maybe your
  employe, his private investigator, the security authorities of your
  countries, etc, etc.

